---
title: Naming and localization for custom functions in Excel
description: Learn requirements for names of Excel custom functions and how to localize custom functions.
ms.date: 02/29/2024
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---
# Custom functions naming and localization

This article describes guidelines and best practices for naming custom functions. It also shows how to localize custom function names to languages other than English.

## Custom functions naming guidelines

A custom function is identified by an `id` and `name` property in the JSON metadata file.

- The function `id` is used to uniquely identify custom functions in your JavaScript code.
- The function `name` is used as the display name that appears to a user in Excel.

[!include[Excel custom functions note](../includes/excel-custom-functions-note.md)]

A function `name` can differ from the function `id`, such as for localization purposes. In general, a function's `name` should stay the same as the `id` if there is no reason for them to differ.

A function's `name` and `id` share some common requirements.

- A function's `id` may only use characters A through Z, numbers zero through nine, underscores, and periods.

- A function's `name` may use any Unicode alphabetic characters, underscores, and periods.

- Both function `name` and `id` must start with a letter and have a minimum limit of three characters.

Excel uses uppercase letters for built-in function names (such as `SUM`). Use uppercase letters for your custom function's `name` and `id` as a best practice.

A function's `name` shouldn't be the same as:

- Any cells between A1 to XFD1048576 or any cells between R1C1 to R1048576C16384.

- Any Excel 4.0 Macro Function (such as `RUN`, `ECHO`).  For a full list of these functions, see [this Excel Macro Functions Reference document](https://www.myonlinetraininghub.com/cdn/files/Excel%204.0%20Macro%20Functions%20Reference.pdf).

## Naming conflicts

If your function `name` is the same as a function `name` in an add-in that already exists, the **#REF!** error will appear in your workbook.

To fix a naming conflict, change the `name` in your add-in and try the function again. You can also uninstall the add-in with the conflicting name. Or, if you're testing your add-in in different environments, try using a different namespace to differentiate your function (such as `NAMESPACE_NAMEOFFUNCTION`).

## Best practices

- Consider adding multiple arguments to a function rather than creating multiple functions with the same or similar names.
- Avoid ambiguous abbreviations in function names. Clarity is more important than brevity. Choose a name like `=INCREASETIME` rather than `=INC`.
- Function names should indicate the action of the function, such as =GETZIPCODE instead of ZIPCODE.
- Consistently use the same verbs for functions which perform similar actions. For example, use `=DELETEZIPCODE` and `=DELETEADDRESS`, rather than `=DELETEZIPCODE` and `=REMOVEADDRESS`.
- When naming a streaming function, consider adding a note to that effect in the description of the function or adding `STREAM` to the end of the function's name.

[!include[manifest guidance](../includes/manifest-guidance.md)]

## Localize custom functions

You can localize both your add-in and your custom function names. To do so, provide localized function names in the functions' JSON file and locale information in the add-in only manifest file.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Autogenerated metadata doesn't work for localization so you need to update the JSON file manually. To learn how to do this, see [Manually create JSON metadata for custom functions](custom-functions-json.md).

### Localize function names

To localize your custom functions, create a new JSON metadata file for each language. In each language JSON file, add `name` and `description` properties in the target language. The default file for English is named **functions.json**. Use the locale in the filename for each additional JSON file, such as **functions-de.json** to help identify them.

The `name` and `description` appear in Excel and are localized. However, the `id` of each function isn't localized. The `id` property is how Excel identifies your function as unique and shouldn't be changed once it is set.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Avoid giving your functions an `id` or `name` that is a built-in Excel function in another language as this conflicts with localized functions.

The following JSON shows how to define a function with the `id` property "MULTIPLY". The `name` and `description` property of the function is localized for German. Each parameter `name` and `description` is also localized for German.

```JSON
{
    "id": "MULTIPLY",
    "name": "SUMME",
    "description": "Summe zwei Zahlen",
    "helpUrl": "http://www.contoso.com",
    "result": {
        "type": "number",
        "dimensionality": "scalar"
    },
    "parameters": [
        {
            "name": "eins",
            "description": "Erste Nummer",
            "dimensionality": "scalar"
        },
        {
            "name": "zwei",
            "description": "Zweite Nummer",
            "dimensionality": "scalar"
        },
    ],
}
```

Compare the previous JSON with the following JSON for English.

```JSON
{
    "id": "MULTIPLY",
    "name": "Multiply",
    "description": "Multiplies two numbers",
    "helpUrl": "http://www.contoso.com",
    "result": {
        "type": "number",
        "dimensionality": "scalar"
    },
    "parameters": [
        {
            "name": "one",
            "description": "first number",
            "dimensionality": "scalar"
        },
        {
            "name": "two",
            "description": "second number",
            "dimensionality": "scalar"
        },
    ],
}
```

### Localize your add-in

After creating a JSON file for each language, update your add-in only manifest file with an override value for each locale that specifies the URL of each JSON metadata file. The following manifest XML shows a default `en-us` locale with an override JSON file URL for `de-de` (Germany). The **functions-de.json** file contains the localized German function names and IDs.

```XML
<DefaultLocale>en-us</DefaultLocale>
...
<Resources>
     <bt:Urls>
        <bt:Url id="Contoso.Functions.Metadata.Url" DefaultValue="https://localhost:3000/dist/functions.json"/>
          <bt:Override Locale="de-de" Value="https://localhost:3000/dist/functions-de.json" />
        </bt:url>
        
     </bt:Urls>
</Resources>
```

For more information on the process of localizing an add-in, see [Localization for Office Add-ins](../develop/localization.md#control-localization-from-the-manifest).

## Next steps

Learn about [error handling best practices](custom-functions-errors.md).

## See also

- [Manually create JSON metadata for custom functions](custom-functions-json.md)
- [Excel custom functions tutorial](../tutorials/excel-tutorial-create-custom-functions.md)
